New York Aims to Better Control AI Hiring Tool
December 08, 2021
8
Advanced
USA & Americas
Exercise 1
Vocabulary
recruitment
Noun
rɪˈkruːtmənt
the action of finding new members of an organization
The recruitment of our CEO was handled by an outside company.


bill
Noun
bɪl
a written suggestion for a new law
The House of Representatives passed a bill to impose higher taxes on the wealthy.
audit
Noun
ˈɔːdɪt
an official examination into an organization's financial records; a systematic analysis or review of something
An external accountant was called in to perform an audit.


disclose
Verb
dɪˈskloʊz
to make information known
The company has not disclosed how much it will pay its new president.
bias
Noun
ˈbaɪəs
an unfair attitude or feeling in favor of or against someone or something
It's important that everyone is treated equally and without bias.
vague
Adjective
veɪg
not certain, clear, or precise in meaning or nature; not thinking or communicating in a way that is clear or precise
I have only a vague understanding of the political situation in Israel.


The party has made some vague promises about tax cuts.


Exercise 2
Article

AI Generated Audio
––:–– / ––:––


New York Aims to Better Control AI Hiring Tool
Job candidates rarely know when artificial intelligence tools are rejecting their resumes or analyzing their video interviews. But New York City residents could soon get more say over the computers making decisions about their careers.

More employers, from fast-food restaurants to banks, are using AI hiring tools to speed up recruitment, hiring and worker evaluations.

A bill passed by the New York city council in early November would ban employers from using AI hiring tools unless they can prove through yearly audits that they don't discriminate against applicants' race or gender.

The bill would also require producers of those AI tools to disclose more about how they work. It also includes disclosure requirements to let people know they're being evaluated by a computer and where their data is going, and candidates will have the option of choosing a different process — such as interviews with a human — to review their application.

Some AI experts and digital rights activists are worried that the bill doesn't do enough to prevent bias.

"The approach of auditing for bias is a good one. The problem is New York City took a very weak and vague standard for what that looks like," said Alexandra Givens, president of the Center for Democracy & Technology.

Givens said it's also a problem that the bill only aims to prevent bias against race or gender, but not against ones that are harder to detect, such as bias against disabilities or age.

The new law would require from employers and agencies to pay fines of up to $1,500 per violation. However, it will be the AI designers that have to do the audits and show employers that their tools meet New York's standards.

The City Council voted 38-4 to pass the bill on November 10, giving a month for Mayor Bill De Blasio to sign it. De Blasio's office says he supports the bill but hasn't said if he will sign it. If he does, the new rules would take effect in 2023.

Exercise 3
Discussion
What are your thoughts on New York City's new bill?
Does your company use artificial intelligence tools when hiring people?
Who is in charge of recruitment at your workplace? Have you ever been involved in it?
How long does the recruitment and hiring process usually take at your workplace?
What's the best job interview advice you've heard or been given?
Exercise 4
Further Discussion
What was your first job interview like?
When was the last time you applied for a job? What was the hiring process like?
Who's the newest person in your organization or team?
What advice would you give to someone who has just joined your company?
Job interviews are like flipping a coin. — Unknown. What do you make of this statement?