Do You Have to Show a Boarding Pass At Airport Shops?
February 04, 2024
5
Intermediate
Travel & Lifestyle
Exercise 1
Vocabulary
Repeat each word, definition, and example sentence after your tutor.
pass the time
Phrase
pæs ðə taɪm
to do something enjoyable or entertaining during spare time
I usually listen to podcasts to pass the time on my commute to work. 

Guy listening to headphones on train, smiling
boarding pass
Noun
ˈbɔːrdɪŋ pæs
a document that a passenger must show in order to get on a plane
Can I see your boarding pass?


annoying
Adjective
əˈnɔɪɪŋ
making a person feel slightly angry
My little brother is so annoying.

Small boy leaning over sofa hand rest reaching for a man's shoulder while tries to cover his face with left hand
duty-free
Adjective
ˌduːti ˈfriː
(of a shop or area) selling products on which tax does not have to be paid
I'm going to stop at the duty-free store.


product
Noun
ˈprɑːdəkt
something that is made to be sold
Most of our products are made in Thailand and Vietnam.

Large Production Line with White Industrial Robot Arms at Modern Bright Factory. Solar Panels are being Assembled on Conveyor. Automated Manufacturing Facility.
refuse
Verb
rɪˈfjuːz
to say or show that one will not do or accept something
He refused to answer any questions from the press.


Exercise 2
Article
Read the article aloud on your own or repeat each paragraph after your tutor.

AI Generated Audio
––:–– / ––:––


Do You Have to Show a Boarding Pass At Airport Shops?
When you're at the airport and you want to buy a drink or some food to help you pass the time as you wait to fly, you are often asked to show your boarding pass.

This can be a little annoying if you've left your boarding pass with another family member or if you have to open your pockets to find it.

So, here's a question — do you really need to show your boarding pass when you're buying something?

If you're buying duty-free products, then the answer is "Yes."

Duty-free shops may not offer the great deals that they used to, but they are still places where you do not have to pay the normal taxes on things you buy.

The shop has to see your boarding pass to make sure that you are traveling to another country. If you are traveling inside the same country, you may not be able to buy duty-free products at the same price.

There are also a lot of people in airports who aren't traveling — the staff working in other shops for example — and if they are not flying out of the country then they can't buy duty-free products either.

But when you're buying from other shops or restaurants at the airport that aren't duty-free, you shouldn't really need to show your boarding pass.

However, staff are still allowed to ask and many of them do. And they can still refuse to serve you if you don't show your pass.

Exercise 3
Discussion
Have a discussion based on the following questions.
Do you often check out the shops when you're waiting at the airport?
Have you ever found a great deal at a duty-free shop?
Are there products you always buy duty-free when you travel?
Why do you think airport food prices are often so high?
Do you often buy souvenirs for your friends and family when you travel?
Exercise 4
Further Discussion
Have a discussion based on the following questions.
What are the nicest airports you've been to?
How early do you usually get to the airport before a flight?
What's the longest time you've had to spend at an airport?
How do you keep yourself entertained during long waits at airports?
Have you had any journeys with multiple stopovers?