Why It's Important to Have Friends at Work
July 15, 2024
8
Advanced
Economy & Business
Exercise 1
Vocabulary
Repeat each word, definition, and example sentence after your tutor.
navigate
Verb
ˈnævɪɡeɪt
to understand or deal with something successfully
We're still trying to figure out how to navigate the new tax requirements.

businessman and businesswoman reviewing some papers and discussing about it in a modern office setting
loneliness
Noun
ˈləʊnlinəs
a feeling of sadness because a person has no friends or is by themselves
The study found that around 1 in 4 Australians experience loneliness at least one day a week.

Young woman sitting on a couch and looking at her phone
epidemic
Noun
ˌɛpɪˈdɛmɪk
a situation in which a disease or something undesirable occurs in large numbers in a particular time and place
The WHO warned that the outbreak could be upgraded to an epidemic if the virus continued to spread. 

senior man and woman wearing masks while driving on the bus
intensify
Verb
ɪnˈtɛnsəˌfaɪ
to make or become something stronger or greater in amount, degree, etc.
The debate over gun control has intensified after the recent shooting.

man holding a handgun in a gun shop
confession
Noun
kənˈfɛʃən
an act of admitting that one has done something embarrassing or shameful
I have a confession to make: I have feelings for Tom.

group of girlfriends talking about different topics while drinking coffee in a cafe
disengaged
Adjective
ˌdɪsɪnˈɡeɪdʒd
emotionally uninterested
Young voters are becoming increasingly disengaged from politics.

young man filling in a ballot in a voting booth during the presidential elections in US
Exercise 2
Article
Read the article aloud on your own or repeat each paragraph after your tutor.

AI Generated Audio
––:–– / ––:––


Why It's Important to Have Friends at Work
As the US navigates what some experts have described as a loneliness epidemic, employers and employees across the country are trying to address what for many people is a lack of real friendships at work.

It's not a new thing, but remote work has only intensified the problem, says leadership expert Michael Bungay Stanier.

"People have this desire to be seen and be heard," Bungay Stanier says, but on video calls, the group gets right down to business rather than having the natural, informal interactions of a real room. It reduces people to "little heads in squares."

It's not easy to talk about this lack of friendship at work "because it feels like a shameful confession," Bungay Stanier says. But his clients are beginning to bring up the subject.

Awkward as it may be, these are conversations worth having, according to psychology professor Laurie Santos.

At-work friendships are good for employers, too. Santos says research shows that workplace friendships and a sense of belonging are vital to employees' happiness — and companies' success.

We assume that friendships at work are "a nice-to-have, not a need-to-have," she said.

But "maybe one of the reasons we're all so disengaged at work ... is that we're actively not investing in the thing that might matter the most for our happiness at work, which is our connection with other people," Santos said.

Some large companies began paying more attention to employee health long before the pandemic, often focusing on physical health.

Today, more employers are looking at ways to really improve people's mental health and well-being.

And experts say there is a lot that companies can do, even rethinking physical spaces in the offices with relationships in mind.

More than anything, remember the importance of everyday greetings at work — even if they make you a bit uncomfortable. A simple hello, Bungay Stanier says, could be the beginning of the end of loneliness.

Exercise 3
Discussion
Have a discussion based on the following questions.
Do you agree that friendships at work are a "need-to-have"?
Are you good friends with any of your colleagues?
Does your employer try to encourage workplace friendships?
Did you work remotely during the pandemic? How did it affect your relationships with coworkers?
Would you say that your company cares about its employees' mental health and well-being?
Exercise 4
Further Discussion
Have a discussion based on the following questions.
How often do you interact with your colleagues during the workday?
Do you ever get together with your colleagues outside of work?
Would you say that quiet quitting is a major problem at your workplace?
What would you do to make sure people felt engaged if you were a manager?
When you're working with your friends, it doesn't feel like it's work. — Ken Jeong. Do you agree?